Timeline prompting in Sora 2 is
absolutely insane, yet nobody even know
what the hell timeline prompting is. We
first had JSON prompting, now all of the
sudden we're switching to timeline
prompting. I understand it's kind of
crazy, but let me explain. Now, with
this new method of prompting, you can
keep consistent scenes easily across
your video that you generate in Sora 2.
And by using this exact method, I
created this video.
That's the ridge line.
If we cut through here, we can lose
them. If they don't burn the house
first.
>> Apex primed. On two.
Go.
Back door.
Copy. Grid 493, over.
You heard that?
Hanger's opening. I see it.
Basically, everything you've just seen
was generated using Sora 2 on Artlist.
They were kind enough to sponsor this
video, so check them out in the
description down below. Now, with this
new method, you basically become a
director and you can decide everything
that's going on in your scene. Shoutout
to Serio for breaking down this method.
Make sure to check him out in the
description down below. Okay, let me
start by explaining how you can do this
prompting technique. First, I want you
to go over to Sora 2. I'm using Artlist
for this. So, there are two ways to
start using timeline prompting. The
first one is text to video and the
second one is image to video. Now, with
image to video, you have a bit more
control because you give it an image
input and with that image input, the AI
can understand what style you're going
for, what character, what objects,
everything basically that you want to
know. Now, with text to video, it's a
bit more a guessing game. So, by then
describing what you exactly want to have
happen in that scene, the AI understands
that it needs to keep that character
consistent, it needs to change that
shot, and there's a little to no
guesswork that needs to be done if
you're using the right prompt. So, I
want you to imagine this. I have this
image here of a knight looking at a map.
Now, if I were to give this a prompt,
what most people would do is they would
prompt it like this. A knight is looking
at the map, he puts it away, and then he
starts marching forward on the
battlefield. The AI has little to no
context. That's all you gave it. So,
with timeline prompting, you're
basically giving it a lot more context
by telling it exactly what it needs to
do at which moment. So, let me break
down one of these prompts and show you
what it looks like. So, now you're
looking at a timeline prompt and with
this prompt, you add a lot more detail
to what you want to have happen to your
scene. But basically, it all still comes
down to what you have inside of your
head. And I will help you make your own
timeline prompt. No worries about that.
So, let me break it down. First, we
start off with the style. So, for this,
we're going with a gritty medieval
cinematic realism style. Then, we're
talking about what we want to happen
with the camera. So, we're starting off
with a 50 mm to 85 mm prime lens and we
want to have a slow dolly that is gently
moving across the scene. Now, for the
hook, we are talking about these time
codes. So, that's the first 3 seconds.
We're starting with a tight profile
close-up shot and then a slow dolly as
the wind is hissing and we have it
capturing the metal and chain mail
shimmer. Then, moving on to the next
shot is context. The focus is going on
the parchment map and the camera's
tilting down as the fingers are like
tracing the route. Now, then we have the
climax. Over the shoulder medium shot,
where we're essentially directing this.
Like, this is no more than just giving
more context about exactly what you want
to have happen. So, we're starting off
with the climax and then we switch over
to the resolution. Now, if you put this
into action, then you get a shot like
this. Okay, as you see, we start off
with a normal shot, we just see the
glistening. Then, we have him with his
fingers going over the map. Over the
shoulder shot right here. And then he's
marching into the empty battlefield.
Honestly, quite insane just from an
image input. Now, that is essentially
what timeline prompting is. So, you're
giving it all the context of what's
happening. JSON prompting, similar
format, a bit more complicated, but this
could also be done without using a
ChatGPT. And speaking of ChatGPT, I've
made a timeline prompter for you. So,
you can just put in your image or put in
your idea and then it will come up with
the prompt because that's the hardest
part, right? You want to describe what's
happening on the scene. But as you saw
from my prompt right here, it's quite
complicated. Like, there are so many
words I can't even pronounce. And with
that, like, ChatGPT will help you with
that as long as what you have in your
mind comes out good in the prompt. If
you have an idea what you want to
create, but you don't have an image,
then you can just simply switch over to
the text to video segment. And in here,
what I did is I said I want to create a
12-second video of a real-life VHS
recorder that is capturing a creepy
scene of a guy walking outside and
meeting an alien. As the tape glitches,
the alien is standing right in front of
him. Kind of like a horror scene, if you
could say. So, then it gave me this
prompt. So, for the style, we're do a
horror style VHS realism, eerie and
analog aesthetic. Camera aesthetic, VHS
recorder with handheld shakiness, zoom
glitches, interlaced flicker, and some
tracking errors. The scene, it describes
the scene for me. Then, we have what's
happening in the beginning. We have a
close-up of a VHS recorder. Let's say
you don't like this. You can just change
this manually. You can even ask the GPT
to change this for you. Then, we're
switching over to a handheld view from
behind and then we're switching over to
a medium shot and then we're ending it
off with the video is heavily distorting
and all of the sudden there's an alien
in front of the camera. So, I put this
into Artlist Sora 2 and with that, I
wanted to also test out what's the
difference between Sora 2 and Sora 2
Pro. So, I generated two videos for you
and this is the first one. This is the
standard Sora 2. So, let's take a look.
I think it's quite good. If we take a
look at the prompt again, then we can
see we start off with a close-up of the
VHS recorder. If we break it down, start
off with a close-up. Then, we have a
handheld view from behind. That is this
shot right here.
And then we have a medium shot. So, we
have it right here switched to a medium
shot. After that, we have the video is
distorting and the alien appears right
in front of the man. I do find that
right here, like, I didn't give any
instructions to switch to this front
view.
And then we have the alien.
Like, the alien looks a bit weird here,
but I do like the close-up in the end.
So, that is generated with Sora 2. A lot
cheaper to use, by the way. Now, for
Sora 2 Pro, which is honestly the most
expensive tool on the market right now,
but it is pretty good, we got this
result. So, let's take a look.
It might be glitching a little bit too
much, but
honestly, if I were to generate this
again and again, I will get completely
different results. So, that is the thing
with AI. You still have some control of
the outcome, but you cannot replicate
exactly what you want if you're doing
these kind of like complex prompts. Now,
let me give you another example, but
this time we're using image to video.
So, image to video, we're just switching
over, switching over to Sora 2. So, now
we just selected Sora 2 Pro, then we
have 16 by 9, 12 seconds, and 1080p and
I have this image that I want to share.
So, this is this crazy-looking dragon
that I made inside of Midjourney. So,
what I can do is I can upload this also
to the ChatGPT. And now we just got to
think of what we want to have happen.
So, I'm just going to say the dragon
roars, takes off, and starts flying in
the sky. He gets shot down by a fireball
and he drops to the ground. Let's hope,
by the way, that Sora is not like
censoring this because that's the only
downside of Sora. Like, Sam, please, if
you're watching this, please just just
allow us to do a bit more uncensored
stuff on Sora. So, now I'm just going to
copy this prompt right here and now we
can just put this inside of our prompter
and then we click on animate and let's
see what we get.
Now, if you want to try this out, I will
leave a link to my custom GPT and
Artlist in the description down below so
you can have some fun with this timeline
prompting on Sora 2. If you want to
learn how to make better and cool
images, then check out the videos on the
screen right now and I will teach you 10
different prompts of how you can use
Nano Banana.